# PrePrint-Template-for-AnyRxiv
MS Word and Libre Office templates for a nicer and more readable #PrePrint manuscript.

These templates aim to create reader-friendly PrePrints.
These templates are inspired by the [BioRxiv preprint template](https://github.com/finkelsteinlab/BioRxiv-Template) made by the Finkelstein lab  and by by [another BioRxiv preprint template](https://github.com/chrelli/bioRxiv-word-template) made by [Christian L. Ebbesen](https://github.com/chrelli).
My versions add more manuscript elements and tweaks (compared to the individual templates above), aim for a more universal print layout (for both A4 and Letter paper size) and include more custom fonts suggestions for different manuscript elements, to provide a better reading experience.

I also include several vector and font-based logo designs: for general use in #PrePrint manuscripts, for those aimed for BioRxiv, etc). They provide a better visual impact and reflect the idea of the OpenScience movement.

The templates are made for both, Microsoft Office and Libre Office.

While MS office is more widely used but Libre Office actually is better in almost every way (while very similar in its interface and it's free). 
The most notorious things with MS Office — which they were not willing to solve for at least 10 years (!) — direcly relevant to PDF file production:
1) Poor quality of raster images when PDF is generated by the internal MS Office pdf conversion engine. This is not an issue in the Libre Office or when PDF is generated by the Adobe Acrobat engine.
2) No support for using .otf-file-fromat fonts when making PDF files. OTF is a more modern file format for fonts (compared to .ttf). But if you save an MS Word file to pdf, with some text set in an .otf font, this text will be converted to a raster image (and the text itself will be absent in the PDF, only its image will remain). Meanwhile, LibreOffice fully supports .otf files — and Open Type fonts in general (which can be both, in .otf and .ttf file format). For example, you can set true small caps in the [Science Gothic font here](https://github.com/googlefonts/science-gothic/issues/340#issuecomment-2889675480) (and they are nice!) but not in MS Word.

You can either:
1. Cut and paste into the .docx or .odt files, which is a general recommendation (particularly, if the source document is not already formatted using MS Word styles)
OR
2. Apply the .dotx template to the source document, if it is already formatted using MS Word styles.
